This will be the first voice recording, or lecture, whatever you want to call it
in a series of -- hopefully -- many. I will generally talk about politics,
religion, philosophiy and psychology.

In order to break out of a consumeristic lifestyle, I'm trying to instead of consuming
podcasts, boosk, videos, and such, to create something for once. People have all
these thoughts, thousands of people listen to political and philosopical podcasts, or read obscure books, they h ave a hobby of formulating a coherent worldview or political view, but never express it. I am like
that too, besides some tweets I throw out to my fellow e-racists, there is not much
difference between me reading books, listening to lectures, and a inanimate object you feed
information, since both generate zero output.

 Besides
breaking out of consumerism, this is also a form of 'cleaning my room'. A first
small step in breaking out of a hedonistic cycle.

Most people seem to have a love/hate relationship with Jordan peterson, they
dislike his hyper individualism, but like the self-help aspect of him. his
idea of cleaning your room is basically the first step in creating a postive
habit that will strenghten your will. Like many of the concepts Jordan Peterson
talks about, this one is a 'quote on quote', secularized, aspect of religion.

Religions have the concept of sin, things you should abstain from, and religious
rites and rules, thing you should partake in. Take for example Islam, where you
have the 5 daily prayers, and the month of ramadan. These rites and rituals force
the creation of a habit. A habit that is not neciserally something you would want
to do without the religion forcing you. Not eating all day is something
that goes against your insticts. Other examples of this are meditation in Budhism;
forcing your mind to be empty. Going to church and fasting in christianity,  Kosher and halal food in Islam and Judaism, and countless
other examples.

These rites are a form of creating new habits forcefully, whereass the concept of sin, forces you to abstain
from (what seems to be) mostly instinctual habits such as masturbation and sex before
marriage.

I see the brain, or the will, to be similar to a muscle. If you train a muscle,
by using it, it will become stronger. By forcing habits you train your will to
be able to do things that go against instict. Creating willpower. Cleaning
your room, or trying to activly create something instead of just consuming,
is a first step in this.

I like how the traditionalist view, or perrenialist one, often goes hand in hand
with the evolutionary pshychlogical one. Even if you are some edgy atheist, you
can see how religion is evolutionary advantagous. Sure, religion could possible just be some
"social construct", but so are gender roles and such. Of course this fostering
of willpower is just one of the postivie aspects of religion, but religion also
offers an idenity, a coherend epistomology and worldview, and such, but I will
speak about that in another recording.

Take for example a population like ours. Where people masturbate freely. You
can be as degenerate as you want, and while being into extreme forms of porn
might be deemed weird, it is not something that you are really prevent from.
Identity is fluid, you can choose to be a man or a woman, you can choose to love
men or women. You can even choose to be neither a man or a women. Kids grow
up with access to endless amount of porn to feed their horny instincts. Kids
grow up with endless simple enterainment, with phones with apps that are designed
to give them that dopamine rush. There is no path set out in life, you can be wathever you want,
socially, sexually, religiously (as long as it is in the bounderies of liberalism),
and cereer wise.

Now compare that with a civilication where your path is largely set out for you.
Where God destined your role in life. You are
in a society where people know what roles to fulfull, weather it be a career, a
gender role or an hierarchical role. You have an identity that you share with your society.
Your society and religious believes force you to abstain from certain habits,
and force you to partake in other habits.

Imagine these two societies both existing for 500 years, which one will create
the more willful people? Of course it will be the later one.

Why would Islam, or Orthodox  Judaism, with all these seemingly strange and arbirtary rulings
on what food you can and can't eat, all these limitations of "freedoms", survive
for thousands of years, if it didn't provide us with something?



Now as to why would willpower be something important. To me it seems that we are currently
in a proto-brave-new-world, as descibed in the book by Huxley. I don't want to get
too conspiratorial, but weather this is something intentional or not, it is clear
that the masses are being dumbed down, both in terms of intellect, and will. We
work these meaningless jobs, and with this I don't just mean boring, or without
impact on society at large, but also meaningless in terms that we live in a world
without absolute meaning. Everything is relative and subjective. We are kept calm
by dopamine injecting phone apps, gadgets and widgets, smart-light-bulbs with bluetooth,
and entertainment.

A lack of willpower results in a lack of ability to change this. We don't have a will
to power. Besides will being able to give us power, be it political or whatever,
is willpower also something that prevents us from a completly ruined life.

I am currently reading Crime and Punishement by Doestivsky, somewhere in the beginning
of the story, the main charachter goes into a bar, where he starts talking with
a drunk man. This man start telling him his life story, his downfall. His addiction
to alcholol, this habit of drinking, led him to loose his job, led him to spend
his families money, led his daughter into prostitution, and led him to use the money
she made to buy more vodka. Of course he knows how wrong he is, but his lack of willpower
makes it impossible for him to stop.

From a sociotal point of view, and an individual point of view, it seems to me
that willpower is important, and that religion is the best way of nurturing willpower.


